SOURCE: SEUSL PDF Document
FILE: SEUSL IR Policy.pdf
============================================================

--- Page 1 ---
Library Committee Memo No: SEUSL/LC/21/52/05
Draft Institutional Repository Policy
Please find attached draft “Institutional Repository Policy” prepared upon the instruction of the
Library Committee of SEUSL. View opinion and suggestion of the members of the library
committee is sought to finalize the policy.

--- Page 2 ---
South Eastern University of Policy No Approval Date
Sri Lanka
Title: Responsible Executives
Vice-Chancellor
Institutional Repository Policy Deans of the Faculties, Librarian, SAL &
Assistant Librarian
1. Preamble
The Institutional Repositories (IR) of SEUSL was established in the year 2006 when the concept
of Institutional Repositories in its infancy stage in Sri Lanka. The windows version 2.72 of Green
Stone Digital Library (GSDL) Software was installed, configured, and customized as the first
SEUSL Institutional Repository in the year 2006. The purpose of this initiative was to realize the
goal of the strategic plan 2006 – 2015. The library has then decided to move its institutional
repository from the GSDL platform to DSpace 4.0 version to set up the digital library in 2014.
SEUSL E-repository was enhanced with new features of the latest version of DSpace Version 5.5
on 7th November 2015.
2. Mission
The South Eastern University of Sri Lanka Institutional Repository (SEUIR) is to be a nodal point
of access for scholarship and creative work contributed by the university with the goal of expanding
the visibility of the university intellectual scholarship to the regional and global community.
3. Objectives of IR
1. To collect and store the institutional digital contents in a single platform
2. To provide open access to institutional research output
3. To archive, preserve, and disseminate institutional documents including unpublished
literature
4. Purpose of the Policy
The purpose of this policy is to establish a framework within which the institutional repository of
SEUSL (SEUIR) is managed, to ensure that SEUIR reflects and strengthens the research excellence
and that research outputs are made available on Open Access for preservation and dissemination.
5. Content Policy
The repository shall accept the submission of the following materials.
i. Conference proceedings of SEUSL (Submitted by the editor/coordinator of the conference)
ii. Thesis and Dissertations of SEUSL undergraduates, postgraduates, and academics
(Submitted by the Heads of the departments through Dean of the faculty)
iii. Journals published by SEUSL (Submitted by the editor of the journal)
iv. Articles authored by SEUSL Academics (Where the author doesn’t own the copyright, the
author should get permission from the publisher to deposit the article in IR)
Page 1 of 11

--- Page 3 ---
Other types of materials will be considered on a case-by-case basis, including:
i. Books and book chapters (non-text books)
ii. Data sets and/or descriptive metadata
iii. Grey literature (technical reports, research reports, working papers, annual reports,
convocation address)
It is encouraged to submit soft copies of the above items.
6. Submission Policy
6.1. Items shall only be submitted by the members of SEUSL
6.2. The SEUIR administrator or authorized person by the administrator will only eligible for
depositing valid layout, format, and metadata
6.3. SEUSL academics shall upload the Articles authored and published elsewhere to the
collection of “Research Articles” (http://ir.lib.seu.ac.lk/handle/123456789/1678) by
following the guidelines attached herewith.
6.4. The validity and authenticity of the content of any submission is the responsibility of the
author/s.
6.5. If any author plagiarized someone else content and submitted it, University or Library
will not take any responsibility for it and the full responsibility of such cases will lie on
the authors.
6.6. If the author does not own the copyright, the author/s should obtain permission from the
publishers to deposit the article in SEUIR before submitting it to the repository.
6.7. Conference proceedings and Journal articles should be sent as a finalized document and
SEUSL Library staff will separate the items and deposited them in SEUIR.
6.8. When submitting the university publications such as conference proceedings, journals,
etc. the editors/ coordinators are responsible to submit the finalize documents as a
searchable e-version of it. Part by part submission of such items will not be accepted by
the Library.
6.9. University publications need to be sent as a complete document and should submit within
one calendar year.
6.10. Staff Members are encouraged to submit their articles in e-formats.
7. Metadata Policy
 The metadata schema used is principally based on Dublin core
 Anyone may access the metadata
8. Exclusion policy
8.1. Any document which includes confidential information, administrative documents such as
reports, minutes, and research articles published in predatory journals and conferences.
8.2. The works which have copyright issues will not be included in SEUIR.
8.3. Predatory journals and predatory conferences listed under the following links will be
considered for exclusion unless otherwise it is not indexed in Scopus, Web of Science.
databases.
i. https://predatoryjournals.com/journals/
ii. https://beallslist.net/ (Earlier: https://beallslist.weebly.com/)
Page 2 of 11

--- Page 4 ---
iii. Any other recommended websites/ databases will be considered
upon the recommendation of the University.
iv. Coverage years of particular journals etc. in indexed databases along with the article
published date will be checked and excluded if it is not within the index coverage
years.
8.4. If there is any query on uploaded articles, after evaluation, SEUIR administrator has the
full authority to remove the article permanently from SEUIR and it will be informed to the
author/s of the article.
9. Accessibility
DSpace provides support for Creative Commons licenses to be attached to items in the repository.
They represent an alternative to traditional copyright. The items in the repository except some thesis
and dissertations are freely accessible via the website (http://ir.lib.seu.ac.lk/) and all of these articles
are indexed in most common search engines such as Google and Google scholar. The author has
the full responsibility to obtain the copyright clearance from the respective publishers and editors
for their contents where the library is providing the central access point to the global users on our
intellectual contents.
10. Retention, Replacement & Withdrawal
10.1 Retention
10.1.1 Scholarly material/s of SEUSL publications and other scholarly works of the
SEUSL authors will be accepted unless,
i. The item infringes on the copyright or other rights
ii. The item is proven to include falsified research
iii. The item fails to meet legal requirements
10.1.2 Even, if the depositor leaves the employment at SEUSL, their items shall be
retained in the SEUSL repository.
10.2 Replacement
10.2.1 The author/s may request to replace an item with another version of it if an error
is discovered on the content. If so, the author needs to submit the request with
the approval of the Head/ Dean/ Editor/ Publisher or Coordinator.
10.2.2 The replacement of any such item may use the same record/ Metadata as the
original.
10.2.3 If an editor of a journal or proceeding of SEUSL requested to change the articles
deposited in SEUIR, he or she should provide the justification to the Librarian.
10.3 Withdrawal
10.3.1 All archived items are considered permanent. Content may be removed in case
of violation of rules or other exceptional circumstances, in which case all the
information and communication will be saved and registered in a log file for
future requirements.
10.3.2 Items shall only be deleted from the SEUSL repository if there are legal issues
or other exceptional circumstances.
Page 3 of 11

--- Page 5 ---
10.3.3 SEUSL repository shall retain the rights to remove the work for professional or
administrative reasons.
10.3.4 Acceptable reasons for withdrawal as per the following.
 Copyright violation
 Legal requirement
 Security at the national level
 Falsified research
 Duplicates
10.3.5 If an author wants to withdraw or permanent deletion an article deposited he or
she must submit the duly completed prescribed form with the recommendation
of the editor/ coordinator, and then it will be forwarded to the Dean of the
Faculty and the higher authorities for a decision.
10.3.6 The sole authority of the Digital Library is with the Librarian.
11. Copyright
Works submitted to the SEUSL repository will comply with and are subject to the University’s
policies. All the related policies such as University Research Policy, Plagiarism Policy will apply
to the institutional repository items as well.
11.1 When considering the copyright status of a work, there are two possible situations as
follows.
11.1.1 The author owns all rights
The author will retain full copyright to the work done. If submitted such content by the
eligible authors to the SEUSL repository, it will increase the visibility of such content
while raising the profile of the South Eastern University of Sri Lanka.
11.1.2 The publisher owns some or all rights
This situation occurs when authors sign an agreement with a publisher. Typically, such
agreements will transfer some or all rights to the publisher. Publisher copyright policies
will need to be checked to determine if, and what in what form work may be submitted
to an institutional repository. It may be necessary to research the publisher's policies.
These are usually found on the publisher's website, but it may be necessary to contact
them. Several publishers allow the post-print article (defined as the post-peer reviewed
version of the article that is accepted by the publisher for final publication) to be
submitted to an institutional repository, but not the publisher’s PDF version.
 Post-print: the final, revised version of an article after peer review but prior to
publisher’s formatting.
 Pre-print: the author’s version of the article before peer review.
 Publishers PDF: the final, published version of an article.
However, when submitting a content to SEUIR, copyrights will be critically evaluated unless if the
contents are not owned by the university. Library shall check publisher copyright and open access
archiving policies in online resources such as Sherpa Romeo (https://v2.sherpa.ac.uk/romeo/).
However, the primary responsibility of conducting copyright clearance falls to the contributor of
their scholarly works.
Page 4 of 11

--- Page 6 ---
12. IR Administration
Administration activities of SEUIR should be carried out by the assigned administrator for the
repository by the Librarian.
13. IR Backup
Administrator needs to take backups periodically in order to reduce/avoid loss of data in any case.
14. Contact information
Address : Librarian,
South Eastern University of Sri Lanka,
University Park,
Oluvil. #32360
Email : Librarian: rifayiqa@seu.ac.lk
SEUIR in charge: esbandara@seu.ac.lk (On study Leave) or saajith@seu.ac.lk
Page 5 of 11

--- Page 7 ---
Definitions
Institutional Repository (IR):
Institutional repository is a set of services that a university offers to the members of its community
for the management and dissemination of digital materials created by the institution and its
community members1. It includes an organization’s commitment to the stewardship of digital
materials, including long-term preservation where appropriate, as well as organization and access.
DSpace:
DSpace is an open-source software package used for a digital library. It preserves and enables easy
and open access to all types of digital content including text, images, moving images, mpegs, and
data sets.
Deposit:
A deposit represents a bundle of the submitted information. Typically, a deposit consists of
descriptive metadata, access conditions and copyright information, and any relevant uploaded files.
This entire set of saved information is the deposit record.
Depositor:
A depositor is the creator of a deposit record, who submits digital items and associated data for
review, approval, and uploads to the repository.
Dublin Core:
The Dublin Core is an initiative to create a digital ‘Library card Catalog’ for the web. It is made up
of a set of 15 standard metadata elements that facilitate the indexing and searching of electronic
resources in the World Wide Web.
Open-access repository:
Scholarly articles stored and made available on the public internet, permitting any users to read,
download, copy, distribute, print, search, or link to the full texts of these articles, crawl them for
indexing, pass them as data to software, or use them for any other lawful, noncommercial purpose,
without financial, legal, or technical barriers other than those inseparable from gaining access to
the internet itself.
1Clifford A. Lynch and Joan K. Lippincott, “Institutional Repository Deployment in the United States of Early
2005,” D-Lib Magazine 11, no. 9 (Sept. 2005): Available online at
http://www.dlib.org/dlib/september05/lynch/09lynch.html
Page 6 of 11

--- Page 8 ---
DSpace Submission Guidelines
STEP 1
Click SEUSL Library Institutional Repository (Digital Library or SEU e Repository)
(http://ir.lib.seu.ac.lk/) Menu from the Library website (http://www.seu.ac.lk/library/index.php)
Page 7 of 11

--- Page 9 ---
STEP 2: SIGN IN TO DSPACE:
Click on “Login” button and register as a new user. Follow the instructions in order to complete
the registration. Alert will go to the email address used in the registration. To complete registration
for a DSpace account, duly complete the form and submit. The Email address will be verified and
used as your login name.
STEP 3
Click on the “Communities & Collection” to select a separate collection “Research Articles”
(http://ir.lib.seu.ac.lk/handle/123456789/1678) created for you to upload your articles published in
elsewhere (other than SEUSL Publications), viz Journals, Chapters of books, Reports and
Proceedings etc..
Page 8 of 11

--- Page 10 ---
STEP 4
Click on,
“Submit a new item to this collection (http://ir.lib.seu.ac.lk/handle/123456789/1678/submit)
You need to fill out selected fields on page (Item Submission – Describe Item Page 1). By filling
out these fields in the form, you are creating a metadata record for your item. Your ability to provide
more information about an item will increase more chances for users to find the item.
Page 9 of 11

--- Page 11 ---
 Author: Enter information about a person/ organization/ service responsible for creating or
contributing to the content of the item. Click on the Add more button if the item has more
than one Author
Eg: Sewwandi, B. G. N.; Takahiro, K.; Kawamoto, K.; Hamamoto, S.; Asamoto, S.; Sato,
H.
 Tile: Enter full and proper title of an item.
Eg:
Evaluation of leachate contamination potential of municipal solid waste dumpsites in
Sri Lanka using leachate pollution index.
 Other Tile: Alternative titles may include abbreviations, translations, or acronyms etc.
 Date of Issue: Enter the date, month and year if possible.
Citation: If you submitting journal article, you need to enter the journal title, volume number,
date and pagination. For book chapters, include the book title, place of publication, publisher
name, date and page numbers.
Eg:
14th International Waste Management and Landfill Symposium. 30th Sep-4th Oct,
2013. Sardinia, Italy. pp. 212- 223.
Tropical Agricultural Research, 21(4): 353 - 360.
 Series and Report No.: Series and Report Number field stored information such as technical
reports and working papers with numbered series.
 Identifiers: Enter any number or code that identifies this item in some other system and select
the type of identification system from the drop down menu. (ISBN /ISSN / URI)
Page 10 of 11

--- Page 12 ---
 Type: Select the type of work that best defined your item. You can select more than one type.
 Language: Select the language of the intellectual content of your item.
STEP 5 Submit Describe Item Page 2
 Subject Keywords: Enter appropriate subject keywords or phrases.
Eg: Coconut husk
You can click on “Add” button, to enter more than one subject or keywords.
 Abstract: Enter the abstract of the item. Including an abstract makes your work more accessible
for searching and retrieving for users. There is no limit to the length of the abstract you attach
to your item in the system.
 Sponsors: This field is required if you are submitting an item related to sponsored research or
special funding. You can provide information about the sponsors or funding bodies.
 Description: Enter any other information about to your submission or comment that you think
may be of interest to users of the item.
STEP 6 : Submit ; upload file (s) :-
Click “Browse” button a new window will allow you to select the file from your computer.
STEP 7 : Item Submission : Review Submission: -
To correct or edit information about your item, click on the corresponding button on “Correct one
of these”, or use the button in the progress bar at the top of the page to move back through the
submission pages.
STEP 8 : Item Submission : Distribution License
Your agreement is required before your item can be published in our University “e Repository”.
Click on “I Grant the license” button. Finally click on “Complete submission”
Page 11 of 11